Welcome, in this video, I'm going to introduce you to the concept of collaborators.
Starting off, I'm on the "jasongtaylor" user id
that I have in my main browser, logged into GitHub. And, in a secondary browser,
I'm logged in as "awesomejt" which is a different user that I'm managing.
Logged in as "awesomejt", I want to add "jasongtaylor" as a contributor
to one of my repositories that I have within my user's space.
This feature is specifically for individual users in GitHub
that want to allow different users to contribute to a Git repository directly,
that is grant read and write access to those repositories.
So, I'm going to go down to my repositories logged in as the "awesomejt" user,
and select test, which is just a public repo that I have
as part of my "awesomejt" user. Then I'm going to go down to the right hand side,
of my repository, and I should have my repository menu,
with one of the items being settings. Click on "Settings",
and then on the left hand side is the list of settings options,
one of which is collaborators. Click on "Collaborators",
which then you will land on the collaborators page.
To add a collaborator, just search by their username, or their name, or their email address.
I happen to know the username is "jasongtaylor", which comes up in the search results.
Once you find a match, select that item, then click on add collaborator.
Now this user has read and write access to the "test" repository;
this allows the " jasongtaylor " account to directly edit this repository
and accept pull requests into this repository. Alright, let's check it out.
So, I'm going to head back over to the "jasongtaylor" profile;
going to do a refresh to make sure all my settings are updated,
and now I see, under my repositories, the "awesomejt/test" repository
since I have write access to this repository.
So, I could go in and click on this repository and now I'm in the "awesomejt/test" repository.
While I'm here, I'll make a quick edit to the Readme file; click on the Readme file,
click on edit this file. Once done editing the file, I'm going to commit my changes:
then click commit changes. Now that I've done that,
I'm going to go back over to my other account, that is my "awesomejt" user,
reload the page, make sure I'm up to date.
And, on the collaborator's page, I may decide that I didn't want to add
"jasongtaylor", or at this point I may wish to revoke access.
I can revoke access by going to the collaborator's page,
and then clicking the x to remove "jasongtaylor" as a collaborator.
Once I do that, "jasongtaylor" is no longer listed as a collaborator,
so now when I refresh, I only have read access to this repository.
If I try to edit this file, it's going to recommend that I fork this repository first.
Also, if I click on the octocat icon,
which will return me to the newsfeed page of my account,
I see that the "awesomejt/test" repo is no longer listed under my repositories.